# The Stop
I've been avoiding walking past the bus stop where I had a gun pulled on me. The reason for it is this: My mind has, understandably, given birth to all sorts of rationalizations to avoid that place.


I worry that I'll see the same man and he'll recognize me. People in his station in life don't really have too many places to go.
I worry that I'll run into his buddies and they'll ambush me.
I worry that if I try to walk past it, that I'll get thirty feet away from it, and I'll stop and turn around out of fear. I worry then that I'll feel ashamed of myself.
I worry what people will say if they find out that I tried to walk there again.
"Are you looking for trouble!?"
"You probably shouldn't go there. You could get hurt!"
"Just walk a block down and around to avoid it. Better safe than sorry, you know."

I had so many competing lines of thinking bouncing around in my head about the whole situation. Should I walk past, or take a 2 minute detour around? I had a hundred (I'm exaggerating for dramatic effect a little here :P) different voices standing in a crowd inside of my head and they were all yelling at me, "listen to ME! ME! ME! I want your attention! Do this! Or this! Or that! But don't do THAT!" These voices are waving flags and brandishing signs. They're shouting and dancing and prancing circles around where I stand. They make me feel lost, fragmented, and a bit sad. But, I have a strategy in times like these. I challenge these voices. I walk back and forth amongst their foremost ranks and ask them, forcefully but evenly, "Where is the man I admire amongst you?" The man I admire, determined and relentless, always manages to elbow his way to the front of the crowd when I ask this question. When he stands before me in front of all the competing voices, the calamity ceases. The voices know that once this man has my attention, that continuing their ruckus is pointless because I won't listen to them for any longer. So the voices lower their picket signs and put their loudspeakers back into their packs, whispering venomously and swearing under their breaths about how they have been defeated again. They shuffle into nothingness. Sometimes the man I admire speaks words for me to listen to. Sometimes I get into arguments with him. I'm better about shutting up and listening to him now. This time he doesn't speak. All he needs to do in this instance is show his war-face to me. His brow is furrowed, a little more on the left side than the right. His look is a bit crooked but he doesn't care what I think of that. His eyelids aren't open so wide that he has the look of fear or surprise nor are they open so narrow that he has a look of suspicion about him. His eyes say that he's alert. His chapped lips are stuck together to form a smirk that says he is ready. I understand what he's instructing me to do.

Yesterday I walked to the bus stop where it happened. I looked around nervously. I thought that I saw the man I encountered and my body jolted and some of my steps faltered. It was a 5'2" asian lady with a grocery bag that hinted  at the fact that she had just come from Target. I laughed at myself, and some tension left my body. I looked into the bus stop where it happened. No one was there. I walked some small circles in the area where I was standing when I asked a girl if the gunman was her boyfriend.

The streets where as busy and noisy as they normally are, but, somehow, they seemed very quiet all the same. My heart became warm and I as I turned my back on the bus stop to walk home, the place became a symbol to me. If you're wondering what it represents to me now, that's for you ponder.
