I tell all the wrong jokes to all the wrong people. I lose my temper and look straight into people's eyes with a scrunched forehead and scowl trying to see if I can steal their souls. I've known some people who are too embarrassed to even look into my eyes. I'll sit down with them and they'll say I'm making them uncomfortable without me saying a word! One of the professors I worked as an assistant under said that some days I looked like I had a thousand yard stare going on in my eyes. He was right. I don't get up when my alarm clock sounds and I make excuses for sleeping in, and miss my morning work out. I tell white lies and remember them when I try to go to bed and start hating myself, preventing me from falling asleep which cancels my workout the next day. And sometimes the next. I've probably spammed my poorly written resume to fifty different businesses over the course of my life. I've had three companies show interest in wanting to hire me from that process, so that's a success rate of 6%. I agree to go to a meeting at work and never show up.

But I can tell you all this because I'm confident that I will figure things out by making mistakes. I understand all these things are part of my process. They're an integral part of the story where I become my own hero.

Here's an aspect of my life that you may not know much about. My family keeps their living areas warm with wood fires. So we need a supply of a wood to get us through the winter. So we try to get wood from various sources. Some of it's branches that have been gathered in a pile from a friend doing a cleanup operation on their property and that friend is happy to give that wood away. Some of the wood is sourced from a neighbor with a heart of gold who's already done the work of picking the trees out, cutting them down, sawing them to length, and piling it up together in one spot. A lot of it comes directly out of the acreage we own and my Dad chainsaws the trees and branches down himself. Some of it's been sawn to length, but not split. Some of it's knotted to all hell and some of it's still green, springy, and filled with moisture. How a piece of wood burns depends on the species of wood and how much time it's had to dry out. Split wood dries faster than unsplit wood because the more surface area of the wood you expose to air, the faster it dries. Some of it burns like junk and doesn't give off much heat. To put wood into a stove the pieces need to be able to fit into the stove. Different stoves have different tolerances for the size of wood they will accept. Blah blah blah the list goes on. The point is there's all sorts of little details about harvesting, processing, and hauling wood so that it can get to the point of going into a wood burning stove that gives off heat to warm a family.

This choice is a conscious decision. I want my hands to be tough. Gripping the rough contours of bark and the sharp edges where a piece has been sawn is a sure fire way to develop some toughness in your hands. Plus there's the cold to contend with. What about frost-bite you say? What about it? I'll take a moment to blow air into my palms and warm my hands back up every so often and that'll work if the weather's not too bad. Obviously if it gets ridiculously windy/cold I'll put gloves on. But I try not too. My Dad is always asking where my gloves are. I'll smile at him and say I'm fine without. Maybe he thinks I'm a little crazy or being a stupid show off but I take a little bit of pride in it.



My hands have some calluses so I'm good handling the wood with my bare hands most of the time but sometimes I get a splinter that I have to pull out, or a small cut and a little blood comes out. Sometimes I smash my fingers between two pieces of wood. Good thing that the cold is a good numbing agent. Sometimes I scrape my leg stumbling down a hodge-podge pile of wood I had to climb down because I had to climb up it to pick out a good sized piece that will fit in our wood stoves.    

I can't pick pieces that are so long that they need to be sawn down to length but those kinds of pieces are mingled with the pieces that I want to grab, so I end up moving the 'bad' pieces out of the way to get at the good stuff. It takes a bit of effort to separate the bad pieces from the good because all the wood is tangled together in a web of interlocking nooks, nubs, and curves, frozen into the ground, or just plain heavy to move.

I stack every piece in the bed of the truck as neatly as I can without wasting too much time trying to find where that piece is going to fit perfectly so I can fit the maximum amount of wood in the truck while still not trying to over-optimize how neatly it's stacked together.

I make everything a little challenge for myself and I purposely put myself at risk. Can I grip that piece of wood by the end and move it with only one hand despite it being heavy? How neat can I stack this pile? Do I have enough focus so that even though I'm tired when I hold the splitting wedge in place with my left hand and bring the engineer's hammer down upon it accurately and forcefully with my right hand so that I don't end up smashing my left hand with a ill-aimed blow? Can I move this huge unsplit piece that I can't pick up normally by rolling it up my shins, onto my knees and into my arms sort of like in a weird power type lift? Can I stay squatted close to the ground while gathering up pieces of wood in my arms and keep my low back in good posture? Can I throw this piece from where I'm standing with enough force so that it gets to the pile? How should I throw it?

I don't do much of the felling or cutting the felled trees or branches to the right length with the saw. My Dad generally does most of that and there's this whole art to selecting trees and sawing them down so that you don't saw your own hand off while hacking down trees so that they don't fall on top of you when they finally start careening over. I just try not to get in the way of his saw tip and I help him move brush and bigger sawn pieces out of the way. I try to observe what he's doing without asking too many pestering questions because it's a bit of a stressful operation that requires his full attention. It's inspiring to watch.

When it comes to hauling, splitting, and stacking the wood, however, that's where my youth comes in handy. I love chucking wood into trailers. I love throwing the mauling axe down upon an imaginary enemy represented by a bundle of fibers and knots. I love scratching my beard while I admire the stacks of wood that I've arranged into neat little rows that fit nicely together.
